---
Name: Fall
tags:
  - "2024"
order: 1
---
* Our MSc capstone student, Erika Kirkpatrick, was nominated and chosen to receive the University of Arizona College of Information Science's Graduate Teaching Award. Congratulations Erika! 
* We secured Faculty Seed Grant that allows for further support one postdoctoral researcher ($15,000)
* The lab helped secure a $3 Million grant for an NSF NRT program CAMBIUM: Climate change Adaptation and Mitigation through Biodiversity Informatics edUcation and Mentoring
* We are happy to welcome our various new lab members! 

  * Pradnya Raut → MS student working on a capstone project
  * Isabella Kortiz → student worker in the InfoSci MS advising team
  * Delaney Scott-Martin → undergrad student working on our current VIP project
  * Erika Kirkpatrick → MS student working on our current VIP project
  * Eleanor Tuck → student worker in the InfoSci MS advising team
  * Kennedy Gezella → undergrad student worker supporting the lab on the managing side
* We secured a ~$100k Level II grant from National Geographic. This grant will enable us to create a Data Science-related teaching program that will be deployed in Colombia during 2025. We will also teach an intro to phylogenetics using phruta using this funding.
* We secured funding for our students through NSF’s WAESO ($3000) and the VIP seed grant ($3000). 
* Dr. Van Boxel, first Ph.D. student in the lab, published her paper "BARMPy: Bayesian additive regression models Python package" in the journal Computational Statistics
* A paper led by Dr. Alex Arnold at UCLA was published earlier this semester (Comparative clumped isotope temperature relationships in freshwater carbonates) in the The Depositional Record. Congrats Alex!
* Dr. Román attended the Urban Eco Evo RCN meeting held in UWashington and hosted by Dr. Marina Alberti in October, 2024.
* Along with the Lovejoy Foundation (i.e. Rachel Gallery and Jessie Golding) at the University of Arizona, Dr. Román attended the UN COP16 in Cali, Colombia
* We are sad to say goodbye to one of our amazing lab members…Hector Garcia, our former research laboratory manager. We thank Hector for all his help and dedication to supporting the Data Diversity Lab. 
* The College of Information Science assigned Harvill 320D to our MS Faculty Team members. We will be using this office to support our students with drop-in meetings and to have the members of our team in a dedicated space.
* Concerning, our lab is located in the second floor of Harvill. Recent informal communications have suggested that the only elevator to the entire building will be out for maintenance for at least one semester in Spring 2025. Classes are expected to be scheduled in other buildings across campus. We will potentially experience accessibility-related limitations as part of these alterations...
* Dr. Kristen Martinet, one of our postdoctoral researchers, was selected as one of only two presenters to win the Best Poster Presentation award! This was for her poster presented at the Arizona Postdoctoral Research Conference this September. Congratulations to Kristen!

  * Linked here is further information about her award: <https://uapostdocs.weebly.com/spotlight/archives/11-2024>
